# Compile time options #

The following options can be given to compiler to customize libfixmath for a particular application. They are usually defined by giving e.g. the command line switch `-DFIXMATH_NO_ROUNDING` to the compiler.

## Accuracy ##

  * **FIXMATH\_NO\_ROUNDING**: Disable rounding. Results may round randomly up or down, i.e. their accuracy is +-1. Runs slightly faster.
  * **FIXMATH\_NO\_OVERFLOW**: Disable overflow detection and saturating arithmetic support. Overflowing computations will give garbage results. Runs slightly faster.

## Platform ##

  * **FIXMATH\_NO\_64BIT**: Disable use of `uint64_t` in the code. Meant for compilers that do not have 64-bit support. Runs the same speed or slightly slower.
  * **FIXMATH\_OPTIMIZE\_8BIT**: Use variants of the functions that are suitable for small 8- and 16-bit processors. Much faster on those processors, much slower on 32-bit processors.
  * **FIXMATH\_NO\_CACHE**: Do not use cache for `exp` etc. function results. Uses less RAM, runs slightly slower.

## Algorithms ##

  * **FIXMATH\_SIN\_LUT**: This uses a look-up table generated by the fixsingen tool from svn, it is faster on some devices but the lookup table takes up ~200KiB (205376 bytes) in memory and can be slower dependant on usage.
  * **FIXMATH\_FAST\_SIN**: This enables a faster but less accurate approximation of the sin function, for code where accuracy isn't as important such as games logic or graphics rendering then this is often a worthwhile tradeoff.